Add foundational docs improvements for DRA (#51091)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation.md

DRA provides a flexible way to categorize, request, and use devices in your
cluster. Using DRA provides benefits like the following:

* **Flexible device filtering**: use common expression language (CEL) to perform
  fine-grained filtering for specific device attributes.
* **Device sharing**: share the same resource with multiple containers or Pods
  by referencing the corresponding resource claim.
* **Centralized device categorization**: device drivers and cluster admins can
  use device classes to provide app operators with hardware categories that are
  optimized for various use cases. For example, you can create a cost-optimized
  device class for general-purpose workloads, and a high-performance device
  class for critical jobs.
* **Simplified Pod requests**: with DRA, app operators don't need to specify
  device quantities in Pod resource requests. Instead, the Pod references a
  resource claim, and the device configuration in that claim applies to the Pod.

These benefits provide significant improvements in the device allocation
workflow when compared to
[device plugins](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/),

> which require per-Pod device requests, don't support device sharing, and don't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which require per-container device requests, don't support device sharing, and don't
```

  terminates, Kubernetes deletes the corresponding ResourceClaim.

ResourceSlice
: Represents one or more resources that are attached to nodes, such as devices.
  Drivers create and manage ResourceSlices in the cluster. When a ResourceClaim
  is created and used in a Pod, Kubernetes uses ResourceSlices to find nodes
  that have access to the claimed resources. Kubernetes allocates resources to
  the ResourceClaim and schedules the Pod onto a node that can access the
  resources.

### DeviceClass {#deviceclass}
  
A DeviceClass lets cluster admins or device drivers define categories of devices
in the cluster. DeviceClasses tell operators what devices they can request and
how they can request those devices. You can use
[common expression language (CEL)](https://cel.dev) to select devices based on
specific attributes. A ResourceClaim that references the DeviceClass can then
request specific configurations within the DeviceClass.

To create a DeviceClass, see
[Set Up DRA in a Cluster](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/assign-resources/set-up-dra-cluster).

### ResourceClaims and ResourceClaimTemplates {#resourceclaims-templates}

> A ResourceClaim defines a request for resource allocation. Every ResourceClaim
> references a specific DeviceClass and uses _requests_ and _constraints_ to
> filter the resources in the DeviceClass. ResourceClaims can be created by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A ResourceClaim defines a request for resource allocation. Every request in a ResourceClaim
references a specific DeviceClass and uses and _selectors_ to
filter the resources in the DeviceClass. ResourceClaims can be created by
```

"selectors" filter devices. "constraints" limit the set of devices. I'm not sure (yet) whether this also mixed up elsewhere. Also note that device classed are per request, not per claim.

  
  * Create ResourceSlices that provide Kubernetes with information about
    nodes and resources.
  * Update ResourceSlices when resource capacity in the cluster changes.
  * Optionally, create DeviceClasses that workload operators can use to
    claim devices.

* **Cluster admin**: responsible for configuring clusters and nodes,
  attaching devices, installing drivers, and similar tasks. To use DRA, 
  cluster admins do the following:
  
  * Attach devices to nodes.
  * Install device drivers that support DRA.
  * Optionally, create DeviceClasses that workload operators can use to claim
    devices.
 
* **Workload operator**: responsible for deploying and managing workloads in the
  cluster. To use DRA to allocate devices to Pods, workload operators do the
  following:
  
  * Create ResourceClaims or ResourceClaimTemplates to request specific
    configurations within DeviceClasses.
  * Deploy workloads that use specific ResourceClaims or ResourceClaimTemplates.

## DRA terminology {#terminology}

DRA uses the following Kubernetes API kinds to provide the core allocation
functionality. All of these API kinds are included in the

> `resource.k8s.io/v1beta1`

Author: Isn't there a dependency on v1beta1 even if you enable v1beta2?

> `resource.k8s.io/v1beta1`

Author: Hah thank you for calling it out! Yeah I went with v1beta1 for this bit because that's the core functionality and I didnt want to muddy it with the other version mention. But I think by the time beta3 or even GA comes around we'll be ok!

### ResourceClaims and ResourceClaimTemplates {#resourceclaims-templates}

A ResourceClaim defines a request for resource allocation. Every ResourceClaim
references a specific DeviceClass and uses _requests_ and _constraints_ to
filter the resources in the DeviceClass. ResourceClaims can be created by
workload operators or can be generated by Kubernetes based on a
ResourceClaimTemplate. A ResourceClaimTemplate defines a template that
Kubernetes can use to auto-generate ResourceClaims for Pods.

#### Use cases for ResourceClaims and ResourceClaimTemplates {#when-to-use-rc-rct}

The method that you use depends on your requirements, as follows:

* **ResourceClaim**: you want multiple Pods to share access to specific
  devices. You manually manage the lifecycle of ResourceClaims that you create.
* **ResourceClaimTemplate**: you want Pods to have independent access to
  separate, similarly-configured devices. Kubernetes generates ResourceClaims
  from the specification in the ResourceClaimTemplate. The lifetime of each
  generated ResourceClaim is bound to the lifetime of the corresponding Pod.

When you define a workload, you can use

> [common expression language (CEL)](https://cel.dev) to perform fine-grained

Reviewer 2: suggestion: use a glossary tooltips for "CEL"

filtering based on specific device attributes or capacity. The available
parameters for filtering depend on the device and the drivers.

If you directly reference a specific ResourceClaim in a Pod, that ResourceClaim
must already exist in the cluster. If the ResourceClaim doesn't exist, the Pod
won't schedule. You can reference an auto-generated ResourceClaim in a Pod, but
this isn't recommended because auto-generated ResourceClaims are bound to the
lifetime of the Pod that triggered the generation.

To learn how to claim resources using one of these methods, see
[Dynamically Allocate Devices to Workloads with DRA](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/assign-resources/allocate-devices-dra/#claim-resources).

### ResourceSlice {#resourceslice}

> Each ResourceSlice represents one or more hardware resources in a pool of

Reviewer 2: ResourceSlices could be virtual, eg a virtual TPM that is emulated and is then assigned to exactly one Pod.

* `size`: `large`
* `cat`: `true`

A DeviceClass could select this ResourceSlice by using these attributes, and a
ResourceClaim could filter for specific devices in that DeviceClass.

## How resource allocation with DRA works {#how-it-works}

The following sections describe the workflow for the various
[types of DRA users](#dra-user-types) and for the Kubernetes system during
dynamic resource allocation. 

### Workflow for users {#user-workflow}

1. **Driver creation**: device owners or third-party entities create drivers
   that can create and manage ResourceSlices in the cluster. These drivers
   optionally also create DeviceClasses that define a category of devices and
   how to request them.
1. **Cluster configuration**: cluster admins create clusters, attach devices to
   nodes, and install the DRA device drivers. Cluster admins optionally create
   DeviceClasses that define categories of devices and how to request them.
1. **Resource claims**: workload operators create ResourceClaimTemplates or
   ResourceClaims that request specific device configurations within a
   DeviceClass.
1. **Workload deployment**: workload operators configure Kubernetes manifests to

>    request specific ResourceClaims or ResourceClaimTemplates.

Reviewer 2: We should highlight what you can do if you only have access to one namespace (a common scenario). Can we draw an analogy to PVCs?

### Workflow for Kubernetes {#kubernetes-workflow}

1. **ResourceSlice creation**: drivers in the cluster create ResourceSlices that
   represent one or more devices in a managed pool of similar devices.

> 1. **Workload deployment**: the cluster control plane checks new workloads for

Reviewer 2: nit: Avoid "deployment" here, even all-lowercase.

    claim devices.

* **Cluster admin**: responsible for configuring clusters and nodes,
  attaching devices, installing drivers, and similar tasks. To use DRA, 
  cluster admins do the following:
  
  * Attach devices to nodes.
  * Install device drivers that support DRA.
  * Optionally, create DeviceClasses that workload operators can use to claim
    devices.
 
* **Workload operator**: responsible for deploying and managing workloads in the
  cluster. To use DRA to allocate devices to Pods, workload operators do the
  following:
  
  * Create ResourceClaims or ResourceClaimTemplates to request specific
    configurations within DeviceClasses.
  * Deploy workloads that use specific ResourceClaims or ResourceClaimTemplates.

## DRA terminology {#terminology}

DRA uses the following Kubernetes API kinds to provide the core allocation
functionality. All of these API kinds are included in the
`resource.k8s.io/v1beta1`
{{< glossary_tooltip text="API group" term_id="api-group" >}}.

DeviceClass
: Defines a category of devices that can be claimed and how to select specific
  device attributes in claims. The DeviceClass parameters can, but don't have to,

>   match devices in ResourceSlices. To claim devices from a DeviceClass,

Reviewer 2: Overall, I think the docs would we better with this change made, even with that quibble.

`adminAccess` field. This ensures that non-admin users cannot misuse the
feature. 

[Admin access](#admin-access) is an *alpha feature* and only enabled when the
`DRAAdminAccess` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
is enabled in the kube-apiserver and kube-scheduler.

> ### Prioritized List {#prioritized-list}

Reviewer 2: Why is this in title case?

Reviewer 2: Instead, find the first subsequent use in running test, and italicize the phrase.

Author: I'm not sure what your second comment here means

          count: 2
```

[Prioritized List](#prioritized-list) is an *alpha feature* and only enabled when the
`DRAPrioritizedList` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
is enabled in the kube-apiserver and kube-scheduler. It also requires that the
`DynamicResourceAllocation` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
is enabled.

> 

Reviewer 2: Do you also need to enable any API groups?

          count: 2
```

> Prioritized lists is an *alpha feature* and only enabled when the

Reviewer 2: Let's also cover it in running text. We will need to check the docs when promoting anyway. It's a scalability thing—a bit more work for contributors, less work for thousands of readers

          value: 6Gi
```

[Partitionable Devices](#partitionable-devices) is an *alpha feature* 
and only enabled when the `DRAPartitionableDevices` 
[feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
is enabled in the kube-apiserver and kube-scheduler.

> 

Reviewer 2: Do you also need to enable any API groups?

is not exempt either. An admin using that mode must explicitly tolerate all taints
to access tainted devices.

[Device taints and tolerations](#device-taints-and-tolerations) is an *alpha feature* and only enabled when the
`DRADeviceTaints` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
is enabled in the kube-apiserver, kube-controller-manager and kube-scheduler. To use DeviceTaintRules, the
`resource.k8s.io/v1alpha3` API version must be enabled.

> 

Reviewer 2: What about beta API versions, eg ResourceClaim?

> Taints can be added to devices in the following ways, by using the

Reviewer 2: nit: try to rephrase into active voice
